Expectans, expectavi
1	I waited patiently upon the LORD; *
he stooped to me and heard my cry.
2	He lifted me out of the desolate pit, out of the mire and clay; *
he set my feet upon a high cliff and made my footing sure.
3	He put a new song in my mouth,
a song of praise to our God; *
many shall see, and stand in awe,
and put their trust in the LORD.
4	Happy are they who trust in the LORD! *
they do not resort to evil spirits or turn to false gods.
5	Great things are they that you have done, O LORD my God!
how great your wonders and your plans for us! *
there is none who can be compared with you.
6	Oh, that I could make them known and tell them! *
but they are more than I can count.
7	In sacrifice and offering you take no pleasure *
(you have given me ears to hear you);
8	Burnt-offering and sin-offering you have not required, *
and so I said, "Behold, I come.
9	In the roll of the book it is written concerning me: *
'I love to do your will, O my God;
your law is deep in my heart.'"
10	I proclaimed righteousness in the great congregation; *
behold, I did not restrain my lips;
and that, O LORD, you know.
11	Your righteousness have I not hidden in my heart;
I have spoken of your faithfulness and your deliverance; *
I have not concealed your love and faithfulness from the
great congregation.
12	You are the LORD;
do not withhold your compassion from me; *
let your love and your faithfulness keep me safe for ever,
13	For innumerable troubles have crowded upon me;
my sins have overtaken me, and I cannot see; *
they are more in number than the hairs of my head,
and my heart fails me.
14	Be pleased, O LORD, to deliver me; *
O LORD, make haste to help me.
15	Let them be ashamed and altogether dismayed
who seek after my life to destroy it; *
let them draw back and be disgraced
who take pleasure in my misfortune.
16	Let those who say "Aha!" and gloat over me be confounded, *
because they are ashamed.
17	Let all who seek you rejoice in you and be glad; *
let those who love your salvation continually say,
Great is the LORD!"
18	Though I am poor and afflicted, *
the Lord will have regard for me.
19	You are my helper and my deliverer; *
do not tarry, O my God.
