Now the time came for Elizabeth to give birth, and she bore a son. Her neighbours and relatives heard that the Lord had shown his great mercy to her, and they rejoiced with her.

On the eighth day they came to circumcise the child, and they were going to name him Zechariah after his father. But his mother said, ‘No; he is to be called John.’ They said to her, ‘None of your relatives has this name.’ Then they began motioning to his father to find out what name he wanted to give him. He asked for a writing-tablet and wrote, ‘His name is John.’ And all of them were amazed. Immediately his mouth was opened and his tongue freed, and he began to speak, praising God. Fear came over all their neighbours, and all these things were talked about throughout the entire hill country of Judea. All who heard them pondered them and said, ‘What then will this child become?’ For, indeed, the hand of the Lord was with him.

Then his father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke this prophecy: 
> ‘Blessed be the Lord God of Israel,
>    for he has looked favourably on his people and redeemed them. 
> He has raised up a mighty saviour for us
>    in the house of his servant David, 
> as he spoke through the mouth of his holy prophets from of old, 
>    that we would be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us. 
> Thus he has shown the mercy promised to our ancestors,
>    and has remembered his holy covenant, 
> the oath that he swore to our ancestor Abraham,
>    to grant us that we, being rescued from the hands of our enemies,
> might serve him without fear, in holiness and righteousness
>    before him all our days. 
> And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High;
>    for you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways, 
> to give knowledge of salvation to his people
>    by the forgiveness of their sins. 
> By the tender mercy of our God,
>    the dawn from on high will break upon us, 
> to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death,
>    to guide our feet into the way of peace.’

The child grew and became strong in spirit, and he was in the wilderness until the day he appeared publicly to Israel.